1	Have you ever encountered the M?ori culture? You might have seen on the discovery channel men standing in line, covered with tattoos and beating their chests, while screaming something in a language that is completely different to anything you´ve heard before. It’s captivating, right? The M?ori culture is fascinating to witness and its rich traditions play an important part in New Zealand’s identity and soul. Let´s dig a little deeper to find out more about things you probably don´t know about the M?ori culture.
2	Hongi is completely different and maybe a bit frightening to what the western world is used to. Rather than using a handshake to greet each other, the M?ori press their noses and foreheads together. This unusual greeting has a deeper meaning than a regular handshake. It signifies the blending of two souls, which makes this a gesture filled with respect for one and other. (TripSavvy. 2018)
3	The haka dance is often thought to be only a war dance, and this is partly true. It was once used out in battlefields to scare their enemies but there are different kinds of haka depending on the occasions. For example, the haka was also performed during rituals of peace, during funerals or to welcome new visitors to their community. (Newzealand.com. 2018)
4	Nowadays, the haka dance can be seen before New Zealand’s rugby games by the famous All blacks team, and during M?ori ceremonies
5	The word hangi gets easily confused with hongi but they have different meanings. A hangi refers to the traditional method of cooking M?ori food. The M?ori people believe the earth was the creator of all life. Therefore, traditional M?ori food is cooked in a pit under the ground. Meat, fish, chicken or root vegetables are slow-cooked and this results in a smokey aroma, which makes the food taste delicious. (Alves, T. 2018)
6	Hangi, hongi, moko… it all comes clear once you have experienced the M?ori culture first hand. An exciting way to do it is by spending one study abroad semester in New Zealand.